[THEME MUSIC]
>>JIMMY CHURCH: Hey,
everyone, I'm Jimmy Church.
You might know me from Into
the Vortex right here on Gaia.
And I'm honored to be sitting in
for George Noory on this episode
of Beyond Belief.
Joining me is George Haas,
founder and lead investigator
of the Cydonia Institute.
It's a research group dedicated
to exploring the mysterious
and often controversial
structures
found on the surface of Mars.
Now, for over 30 years, George
has been analyzing NASA images
and uncovering
what he believes is
compelling evidence of
intelligent design of structures
that may point to
an ancient Martian
civilization with direct ties
to Earth's own mysterious past.
His latest book is The
Great Architects of Mars,
and it dives deep
into the theory
and lays out some of the
truly astonishing discoveries.
George, welcome
to Beyond Belief.
>>GEORGE J. HAAS: Well, thank
you for having me here, Jimmy.
I'm honored to be on your
show and look forward
to our discussion today.
>>CHURCH: Well,
it starts simply.
This is a very intriguing
and compelling subject, Mars.
But what inspired you
to get into the subject?
>>HAAS: Well, I
graduated high school.
I was a bicentennial
class, 1976.
So NASA had just sent up
their Viking 1 and Viking 2
to take pictures of Mars.
So I just graduated
high school 1976.
They were supposed to
land in the Cydonia area.
I'm sorry.
And they ended up landing
in the Utopia area.
And when they were
taking pictures,
they had that weird picture
that kind of looked like a face.
NASA had a press conference.
It was on television.
They said they found
an odd structure that
looked like a human face, and
everybody was kind of stunned.
And then it was
like a week later,
they had another
press conference.
And they said we had taken
a second picture of this,
and it was just a trick of
light and shadow and nothing
to be concerned of.
No face here.
Let's move on.
>>CHURCH: It certainly got a lot
of people interested in Mars,
didn't it?
When that picture first
hit and, I saw it myself
in the newspaper,
we all wondered
if it was what we
thought it was.
Before they did the
second press conference,
where did your mind go?
Did you go straight
there, that it
is possible to have an
ancient civilization on Mars
and start carving faces
on the tops of mountains?
>>HAAS: Well, like a lot
of people, I was intrigued.
I thought, this is
something to look at.
But then, of course, we
all believed that NASA,
they'd never lie.
And they said it was nothing.
And I kind of forgot about it
for a long time until I think it
was in the early 1990s, when
they were going to go back
to Mars, and they were going to
take a new picture with the Mars
Global Surveyor camera.
And that's kind of reintroduced
my attention to Mars again.
>>CHURCH: 25 years of
collecting images for the book--
how did you do that, and what
makes the cut for the book?
>>HAAS: Well, I've been doing
this for almost 30 years.
I've started doing it really
in depth in around 1991.
And I met a guy,
William Saunders,
on Richard Hoagland's Enterprise
Mission discussion board.
And we got together.
We had a lot of interest.
We were finding some
interesting stuff on Mars.
We decided to put
a book together,
and we had our first
book published,
I think in 2005, called
the Cydonia Codex.
A couple of years later, 2009,
we produced a second book.
They were produced by
North Atlantic Books,
again, dealing with all
these odd structures on Mars.
Subsequently, we
wrote a paper about--
which we'll be talking about
later-- a parrot formation.
And Bill and I got the
attention of the Society
for Planetary SETI Research.
We became members.
My co-author, Bill,
he's a geologist.
My background-- I'm
not a scientist.
I'm an artist.
I went to art school.
I'm a sculptor, a painter.
So the reason the society was
interested in my background
was because I had a visual eye.
A geologist-- they're looking
at structures on Mars.
They're only looking for
the shape of the geology.
They're not looking
for anything that
possibly could be artificial
because that's not even
in their concept.
But my schooling, my training,
I know artwork when I see it.
I know architecture
when I see it.
And Mars has it
all over the place.
>>CHURCH: Isn't it
interesting, you and I
have the same background.
So I just want to make
a comment on this.
Art was my background
too as well.
And artists do tend to look at
things a little bit differently.
And I have always been intrigued
with NASA's releases of images.
I would go and look at them,
and I've talked about this a lot
on the radio and on
my shows, that there
are things I would walk
to in these images,
like they are-- there's
something there.
It's interesting.
So I found myself always
on top of NASA's latest
release of photos.
And I would pour into this.
Did you do the same thing
and cover NASA's next release
of photos, and just
look at every single one
because there's
thousands of images?
>>HAAS: Yeah, they take so
many images every month.
And it's a little
difficult to travel and get
into the archives.
But once you master
the technique
of looking at the
NASA photographs,
you can spend hours and hours.
You can get lost, down
the rabbit hole looking
at NASA photographs.
And like you said, with our
background in art, also,
we probably learned about
architecture and in art school.
So we know what
we're looking at.
And geologists,
they're looking just
at what the rocks are looking
like, and anything that
seems odd, they just dismiss.
And once you start
looking at Mars geology,
you get to know what the
natural formations look like.
And it just seems simple
to probably you and I
because anything
that's artificial
has geometry or symmetry
to it just jumps right you.
>>CHURCH: When you look
at the formations--
or possible formations,
let's go with that.
I haven't been to Mars.
I don't know if you have--
would love to go.
So let's say what's
possible right now,
but I see what appears to be
something that's not natural.
I see these formations.
And they do suggest
something else,
and they suggest
something intelligent.
Am I jumping ahead in
thinking like this?
>>HAAS: I don't think so.
It just seems-- you don't
have to be a meteorologist
to know which way the wind
blows or to look at the clouds
and say, well, that's a cloud.
Although, that cloud kind of
looks like a lion or a tiger
or a bear, oh, my.
Is that really a tiger?
No.
You know it's a cloud formation.
And they're usually very simple.
Normally, they just
have a contour.
There's no secondary
or tertiary features.
There's no eye and
iris and nose with--
it's just usually a
very simple shape.
The cloud kind of
looks like a bear.
This one looks like a tiger.
So if you see contrails, you
know they're not natural.
So we can discern between
natural cloud formations
and what is artificial.
Also, they'll have planes
that go up and do writing--
I Love Lucy or I Love Suzy.
Or they make little smiley
faces with the planes,
with the exhaust.
I don't know how they do that.
So we know what they are.
We know what natural clouds are.
And like Bob Dylan
said, you don't
need to be a weatherman to
know which way the wind blows.
And it's the same thing with
what we're seeing on Mars.
>>CHURCH: So the
critics will always
bring up pareidolia, which is
an honest thing to jump to.
Just like you just
said, your brain
is solving things for
you all of the time.
And one of the things that
is in our DNA from birth
is the human face.
And it's easy to see the human
face in just about anything
because that's what
your brain does.
But some of these formations
have right angles,
and they have geometry,
and there's other things
that come into play.
I don't think pareidolia
is part of that.
What is pareidolia
to you, and is it
something that you need
to concern yourself with?
>>HAAS: Well, in the
1990s, early 2000s,
pareidolia was a big problem.
There was an article
in Skeptical magazine
that talked about
trying to diminish
any interest in
the face on Mars,
saying that people have
a tendency-- since birth,
you learn how to look at faces.
It's the first thing you see.
That was the whole story,
was that pareidolia meant
that you see faces everywhere.
You see them in your faucet,
kind of looks like a nose
and a pair of eyes.
But these things are
just natural formations
that we know are not artificial.
It has no intelligent
design to it.
But the problem with pareidolia,
where they got this word from,
was from a science
journal about psychology.
And it was, I
think, back in 1868.
And in this journal,
there was an article
about a hallucinatory problem,
that people were seeing faces
everywhere-- in the
walls and in their coffee
cup and all kinds of things.
So this was a mental disorder.
And they took that
word, which means
for people that suffer this
disorder of seeing faces
everywhere, that we're seeing
faces everywhere because it's
just a natural thing.
And that was what--
I think NASA was very
happy to have that article
out because it diminished any
interest in the face on Mars.
And any time you saw any
kind of figurative thing,
like the parrot we'll talk
about, oh, that's pareidolia.
You see things all the time.
That's nothing to look at.
>>CHURCH: Pareidolia
is one thing.
Pyramids are something
else altogether.
We have right angles,
and that's not a face.
In 1972, we know that
Mariner 9 photographed
what appeared to be pyramids
in the Elysium region on Mars.
Can you tell us about that?
>>HAAS: Yes Mariner 9 took these
very high-contrast photographs.
They were low
resolution, but they
were almost black and white.
So any type of geometric
formation you would see
would have very stark lines.
And Carl Sagan came
publicly and said
that he found some structures
in these early Mariner 9
formations that look
like they're pyramids--
three-sided pyramids.
It got a lot of attention.
And it's an interesting
thing because this
was before the face on Mars.
Scientists were taking this idea
of finding structures on Mars
very seriously.
Carl Sagan wasn't
the first scientist
to take a look at these
formations on Mars.
A gentleman, a scientist,
his name was Mack Gipson.
He had a science paper
published in Icarus magazine.
Now, Icarus magazine is like
a high-brow science journal.
And he had an article
published in there
about these same pyramids
way before Carl Sagan.
And it was called Pyramidal
Formations on Mars.
And he gave this a real
scientific analysis.
And all this was great until
we had the face on Mars,
and then all interest in
anything on Mars was ended.
>>CHURCH: Let's take a look
at two images of the pyramids
on Mars from 1972.
Walk us through this.
This is in the Elysium region.
>>HAAS: Right.
These are the-- that's the
original data strip that
came back that Carl
Sagan and Mack Gipson saw
these triangular, three-sided--
these are tetrahedral pyramids.
We're finding a lot of
three-sided pyramids on Mars.
Normally on Earth,
here you have a lot
of pyramids that
are all four-sided.
Often, you might find
a five-sided pyramid.
Mars seems to have a lot
of tetrahedral pyramids.
>>CHURCH: This is
Carl Sagan's, right?
>>HAAS: Yes, but these
are the new images
from the Mars Reconnaissance
Orbiter CTX camera.
Unfortunately, Carl
Sagan never got
to see any high-resolution
pictures of his pyramids
at Elysium because
he died in 1976.
And these images were
from the early 2000s.
So he never got
any clarification
on what he was looking at.
>>CHURCH: What does this
suggest to you at this stage,
this information and data
is coming out in 1972.
Are you considering a
civilization and life on Mars
at this point?
>>HAAS: Well, just as Carl
Sagan and Gipson said,
that these things
need to be looked at.
These point towards
artificiality.
Nature does not make geometry.
And when you're looking
for artificial structures
on another planet, the first
thing, according to Carl Sagan,
would be look for geometry
because that's the signature
of somebody making something.
>>CHURCH: So we
have the possibility
of an existence of a planetary
body between Mars and Jupiter
that exploded, created a lot of
things here in our star system,
for sure.
Would this suggest some of the
artificial elements of Mars?
>>HAAS: Well, the exploding
planet hypothesis in between
Jupiter and Mars--
whatever civilization
was on Mars at that time,
whenever this blew up.
And Dr. Tom Van
Flandern, in his book--
he talks about this, I
think, in the late 1990s,
that this probably happened
about 65 million years ago,
which coincided with the
destruction of the dinosaurs
here on Earth.
Now, a lot of new science
talks about this event
that if this actually
happened, which
created the asteroid
belt-- the asteroid belt
is in between Mars and Jupiter.
Now, when this planet
blew up-- of course,
you don't want to teach kids in
school that planets can blow up.
Mainstream science says
this asteroid belt was there
since the beginning of our solar
system which makes no sense.
Why would we have an asteroid
belt and all these other rocks
and things were supposed
to go together and create
all the planets.
So when this planet blew
up, it destroyed whatever
civilization was on Mars.
I mean, we can only speculate.
I mean, this was
a long time ago--
probably destroyed.
All the planets were pushed
in towards the sun because
of this explosion, killing
whatever civilization
was on Mercury or Venus.
And Earth, we had low
gravity because it
was further away from the sun.
So that's how you had dinosaurs.
You can't make a dinosaur today.
If you do a Jurassic Park,
you try to do a brontosaurus
or T-- they're not
going to stand up.
It's just impossible.
There's too much gravity.
So that's what killed the
dinosaurs, not the meteor
hitting in the Yucatan and
creating this global problem.
What killed the
dinosaurs is gravity.
And this isn't me talking.
There's scientific
papers talking
about this, this whole idea.
This is a possibility of
what killed the dinosaurs.
So then time passes.
Earth becomes this
green, beautiful place.
We have Cro-Magnon and
Neanderthals running around.
And some civilization from
outside our solar system
comes in here, some
runaway culture,
they come here to
hide from somebody.
Maybe they're running
away from Darth Vader.
We don't know.
>>CHURCH: Are we talking
about the Anunnaki?
>>HAAS: Possibly the Anunnaki,
or some culture like that,
that comes to our solar system.
They find Earth.
It's a paradise.
They come here.
They set up a base.
And whoever they're
hiding from, they set up
little outposts on
the moon and on Mars
because they figure
somebody coming
in from outside
our solar system,
they could defend their
planet with a base on Mars
as a gatekeeper.
So they put one on the moon.
They put one on Mars.
Now, we have evidence
from other researchers
that looks like there's
ruins on the moon,
and we have all the
evidence of all these ruins
we're finding on Earth.
So as time passed, they
took the available man,
the Cro-Magnon,
Neanderthal, or whatever,
and they made us
as workers, which
is mentioned in the Anunnaki.
>>CHURCH: What kind of time
span are we talking about?
How long ago do you
speculate that--
>>HAAS: This is
about a million--
probably a million years ago.
It's not that long ago.
And these timelines, about a
million years ago and 22,000
years ago kind of coordinate,
which we'll talk about a little
later, about the Maya Star Wars,
which is the same time period.
And they build this culture
on Earth and the moon and Mars
as an outpost.
Whatever culture they
ran away from finds them.
Then there's a war.
They blow up everything on Mars.
They blow up
everything on the moon,
and the culture that's
here, they fight it out.
We have all these myths of
ancient cultures fighting,
even in India, the gods
fighting and stuff like this.
So they lose, and they leave.
They leave Earth.
They leave it to the humans,
us, who they've made,
and we inherit the Earth.
They go to another solar system.
We don't know where they go.
We're just speculating.
They go to a place
far, far away,
and we're left to set up camp
on Earth because we're here.
>>CHURCH: Is there any
evidence or data or science
into a past war on Mars?
And I'm talking about
a chemical signatures
or a technical signature.
Any radiation, any
elements that could
be measured on Mars that
would suggest some type of war
on the surface?
>>HAAS: Well, that's an
interesting time frame, again,
the million years ago.
We have-- archaeologists
have this dilemma
about this Maya Star War that
happened a million years ago.
And the only place that they
can find records of this
is in a little known place
in Mexico called Naranjo.
Now, according to the
Maya-- which we can all read
the Maya hieroglyphics now.
They talk about this Star
War between Ticul, Cozumel,
and some of the other
surrounding cities
next to Naranjo, had this
war with Six Earth Place.
The Maya counted all of the
planets from the outside
in, kind of like the Sumerians
did-- another reference
to the Anunnaki.
Earth would be the
seventh planet,
Venus would be
eighth, and so on.
Mars would be the sixth planet.
So they have this reference
to an Earth-like place that's
number six, which would be Mars.
Now, the patron God of Naranjo
was the zip monster or the--
he was also the symbol for Mars.
So we have all
this Mars reference
to Naranjo and Six Earth Place.
Now, there's all this other
textual stuff references
in Maya hieroglyphics that
you can find all this conflict
between Earth and Mars.
The Dresden Codex highlights
all of the celestial movements
of Mars very detailed.
So they're very
interested in Mars.
And in my book, I kind of
catalog all of the events
and all of the symbolism that
relates to this ancient battle
that went on Mars.
And you talked about
a chemical signature.
Well, Dr. Brandenburg
talks about the Xenon-129.
Now, going back
to Mariner 9, they
had a snifter that sniffed
the atmosphere that
was on board the camera, which
most people don't talk about,
the spacecraft that
went out there.
And that's when they
first detected Xenon-129,
all the way back
to the Mariner 9.
>>CHURCH: Which usually only
results from a nuclear weapon--
detonation of a nuclear weapon.
>>HAAS: Right.
That's a signature for
nuclear explosions.
>>CHURCH: Right.
>>HAAS: The detractors
will say, well,
you can have Xenon 129
detected naturally,
but it's very, very minute.
You wouldn't find it
way up in the atmosphere
like they were--
it was abundant.
So it was way more
than you would expect.
It was also detected
during the Viking missions.
So they had two tests
that showed Xenon-129.
And supposedly, the
big hotspots were
Cydonia and the Utopia area.
And those were the
two target areas
we had to land for
the 1976 Viking, which
is kind of interesting.
>>CHURCH: Which is
very interesting
because of the idea
behind the pyramid
seems to be cross-cultural
here on Earth.
Every culture's
built pyramids when
they weren't in contact with
each other, too, as well.
It's an elegant design.
I get that.
But they are so
similar, aren't they?
And I want to pull up an
image of the White Pyramid
in China, which isn't
talked about much.
But China's got some of the
largest pyramids in the world,
but they're also very similar
to other structures, too,
aren't they?
Let's pull up that image.
It's right here.
What are we looking at?
>>HAAS: Well, this
photograph was taken out
of the window from a
pilot during World War II.
He had gone off course, and
he ended up in Xi'an, China.
This picture was taken.
It was published actually at
the time in the New York Times.
And later on, as time
went on-- because nobody--
China doesn't have pyramids.
This is crazy.
And this image ended up
in a lot of those books
about hoaxes and ancient
mysteries and things like that.
So it was basically dismissed
for a very long time
until Google Earth emerged.
And I think this was around
2003 when Google Earth started
having all these images
up on the internet
where you could go around the
world and look at everything.
We found there's dozens
of pyramids in China, just
like this White Pyramid.
Now, what China has
done-- this pyramid
appears to be
covered with granite
or some kind of white stone.
All the stones
have been removed.
And China has covered up
all these dozens and dozens
of pyramids with
dirt, and they've
planted shrubbery and trees.
So it's kind of
obscured from the sky.
But we see them, and we
know these are pyramids.
Now, this idea of building
pyramids, the Maya did that.
They wanted to mimic mountains.
So that was the whole--
that's why we find pyramids.
A lot of these
cultures are trying
to conquer nature and
build man-made mountains.
That's why everything is
pyramidal because they're
mimicking mountains.
So when you're looking
at images on Mars
and seeing these pyramids that
Carl Sagan was looking at,
they're mountain-shaped,
but they're too sharp.
I mean, normal mountains,
the conical shape, or they
don't have these stark edges.
So this is a problem.
Now, this scientist in, I
think it was 2014, did a study.
He invited NASA scientist,
SETI scientist, geologists,
archaeologists, anthropologists,
and he put a book out.
And the result was
that science community
was incapable of
identifying markers
for intelligent design
on another planet.
>>CHURCH: Well,
it's right there.
There is stuff to be discovered
if you take the time to do it.
It is rare.
I'm going to use the word rare.
It is rare these
days to discover
something new, something
fresh, something
that we can sink our teeth into.
But you've just
done that in what
appears to be a parrot
formation there on Mars.
And I want to go through that.
What is it that you found,
and can you tell us about it?
>>HAAS: This parrot
formation was found back
in, I think, 2002 by a member
of the Cydonia Institute,
Will Faust.
And going through some images of
the Argyre basin area of Mars,
next to a huge body of water--
this would have been a port city
at the time--
he found this profiled
image of a parrot.
Now, the parrot from the beak to
the tail is about a mile long.
It's huge.
>>CHURCH: It is big.
>>HAAS: And we have
sent these pictures
to geologists geologist
and veterinarians,
over five veterinarians.
They found 22 points of
anatomical correctness.
>>CHURCH: 22 points?
>>HAAS: 22 points.
>>CHURCH: Explain.
Which points were
they looking at?
And I have to say, once you see
the image, it's not pareidolia.
You can't unsee it.
>>HAAS: Right.
Well, a lot of
times with this type
of digital images,
your human eye
has to adjust to what
you're looking at.
Because I've been looking
at this stuff for 30 years,
so I can pick it
up pretty quickly.
But they're talking
about the beak.
You can actually see the
tongue, the lower jaw, the head,
the eye.
He's got a body.
He's got an elbow that goes
down with claws and feet,
and he's got tails.
One arm is up, the
feathers are up.
You can see the feather frets.
Very much-- the detail
is unbelievable.
So they found 22 points of
this anatomical correctness.
Now, earlier we spoke about
seeing tigers and bears
and lions up in the clouds.
Any type, even land formations
that look like a bear,
turn it to the left where the
rock that looks like a bear--
>>CHURCH: I've seen Washington
crossing the Delaware.
>>HAAS: Right.
So you see a lot of
silhouetted things.
They don't have the
detail that this has.
So this is unquestionably--
this is like a smoking gun.
This is a geoglyph of a parrot.
Now, why is there
a parrot on Mars,
the audience is
probably saying at home.
Well, everything we're
finding, going all the way back
to the face on Mars, all
has a direct correlation
to the cultures of Mesoamerica--
the Olmec, the Maya, the Aztec,
for some reason.
The things we're
finding on Mars--
very similar to that.
It appears like somebody
put these things up there
to tell the story of
the Maya Popol Vuh.
>>CHURCH: But why a bird deity?
>>HAAS: Well, the bird
is the principal bird
deity of the Maya.
In the Maya Popol Vuh, the
story of their creation,
the creation gods
made all the animals.
The first thing
they made were birds
to take care of the
trees and the heavens.
And they made deer to take care
of the foliage and the grass
and stuff.
So one of the birds they had
was the principal bird deity,
and he was a bad boy.
He was a little mischievous.
At the time of creation, he soon
stole the sun and hid it away.
>>CHURCH: So they
all have a story.
>>HAAS: So a lot of
these early cultures
have stories about hero
twins, and so do the Maya.
Now, these hero
twins, the two boys,
they go out looking for
the principal bird deity
because he stole the sun.
They see him sitting up on
top of the world tree, which
is at the center of the Earth.
So there's the
principal bird deity
sitting on the top of the tree.
They get their blow darts out--
boom-- him in the jaw.
Now, if you go back
to the picture--
the audience wants to take
a look at that-- you'll
notice there
appears to be a blow
dart in the parrot's jaw, an
odd feature that the parrot has.
Now, what we're seeing on Mars
is after the hero twins shot
the parrot, and it fell to
Earth, he's down on the ground
dead.
His one leg is out.
His other claws up like this.
And we get to see
all the features
of that upper claw in the new
Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter
image.
It's just amazing.
>>CHURCH: Didn't the
Mayans have a city built
after the design of a parrot?
>>HAAS: Yes, some of the
other-- because the Maya,
also Peruvian architects,
built a lot of structures that
mimicked--
>>CHURCH: There
it is right there.
>>HAAS: Right.
That whole city there is
shaped in the form of a parrot.
And it almost looks
like the parrot on Mars
in the silhouette.
It's got the head.
It's got the wing up--
very interesting.
And this is built by
the early K'iche' Maya.
So this is one of the oldest
structures built by the Maya.
And this is built as
a pictographic image
of the principal bird deity.
Now, the principal bird deity
was also known as Seven Macaw,
because it was a macaw parrot.
The reason it was called
Seven Macaw because the parrot
also had a celestial part,
and that was the seven stars
of the Big Dipper.
So the principal bird deity,
also known as Seven Macaw,
its celestial image
was the Big Dipper.
>>CHURCH: I want to
jump back, if I may.
You mentioned an exploding
planet, the Mayans,
a possible star
war, if you will,
and the creation of
us, as well, as humans.
That's a very interesting
way to look at things.
But can you go deeper into this
concept of a Mayan Star War.
I don't think many
have heard of it?
>>HAAS: No, it goes back to this
little-known place of Naranjo,
where all-- this is basically
where all this information comes
from.
It's a dilemma for the
Maya, or the archaeologists.
But according to
the hieroglyphics
written on the monuments and
in their pottery and stuff,
it talks about this Star
War between Six Earth
Place and Earth.
Now, this happened--
the first big battle
was a million years ago.
It's 896,000 years ago, which
is almost a million years.
And that correlates with
Dr. Brandenburg's explosion
of these nuclear
weapons on Mars.
He says, according to NASA,
it's about a million years ago,
this evidence shows.
The second battle that the star
war incorporated with the Tical
area and Naranjo with Mars
was about 22,000 years ago.
>>CHURCH: Now, let's
take a look at this image
of these Mayan codes
that would suggest this.
Let's start with the Star War.
>>HAAS: Yes, the
glyph on the left
is a Venus glyph, that
little-- looks like the eyes
up there with the number three.
That's a Venus symbol.
And now, so the audience knows
I'm not interpreting these.
This is all
archaeological references.
This is how the archaeologists
interpret all this.
That's a Star War.
Anytime you see that
glyph in a text,
that talks about a star war.
Now, the star wars were
ceremonial with the Maya.
They would have
these rituals where
they would have these
make believe-- like we do
reenactments of the Civil War.
Same idea.
They would do these
ritualistic battles.
And so that would
trigger a Star War.
And on the right
side of the screen,
the first symbol there in
the front is a bar and a dot.
Now, that's the Maya
counting system.
A bar means five.
1, 2, 3, 4, 5-- they used a bar.
And the dot is 1.
So that's 1 and 5 is 6.
And that little acorn head
there, that's an Earth symbol.
So this interprets
as Six Earth place.
This is a reference,
another reference.
Mars references are the Mars
beast, and also Six Earth Place
because it was an
Earth-like place.
>>CHURCH: Very interesting.
The timing of that war-- let's
stay with this if we can.
The timing of the
war is interesting
if we look at a
million years ago,
and we look at our own
historical references
back into that time period.
Is it possible that there was an
ancient high-tech civilization
that came and went here,
and we're still struggling
to find evidence of it?
>>HAAS: Yes, this is
that breakaway culture
we talked about
earlier that came here
about a million years ago.
And the human genome goes
back about a million years.
So it all correlates
with the time frame.
Neanderthals and
Cro-Magnons, they
were destroyed
once they made us.
And shortly after,
they had the battle
there about a million years ago.
And I think the second
battle, the 22,000 years ago,
was after the humans went to
Mars, and that one happened,
which was recorded.
Now, these texts
that we're reading
from Naranjo about the Maya,
I'm not saying the Maya
were on Mars.
They're recording something
that was told to them.
This is sacred knowledge
that they re-enact.
That's why they have
the reenactments.
When their lords
become king, they
dress up like the zip
monster, or they dress up
like the principal bird
deity or some other gods.
And this is all part
of the reenactment.
The Aztecs had what they
called flower wars, which
were reenactments between the
different tribes of the Aztec.
And they wouldn't
kill the enemy.
They would capture them.
So they had these
make-believe wars,
like you'd go on a Saturday
afternoon to watch a reenactment
of Gettysburg with all of these
reenactment guys that have all
their outfits that they have
women sew for them and make it
look like they're back in
the Civil War in the 1860s.
The Maya did-- or the
Aztec did the same thing.
And they didn't kill the enemy.
They would capture them and then
use them later for sacrifice
to the sun.
But they had this
arrangement, which
this is what they would do.
So they're all just
reenacting these ancient wars
that happened so long ago.
>>CHURCH: Is it
similar to the stories,
like in the Epic of Gilgamesh,
and some of the Sumerian texts
that were referencing these
cosmic wars, too, as well
with the Anunnaki?
But these are two
cultures that never
communicated with each other.
Are they similar?
>>HAAS: I think
they're very similar.
And what we have is we have
similar histories being recorded
by different
cultures, but they're
recording it in their sect, in
their creed, in their history.
So it's a little different.
So the Romans have hero twins.
You find over in Scandinavia,
they have hero twins.
It's the same idea.
The stories are just
changed a little bit.
And I think the whole concept of
the Anunnaki, the whole story--
we probably don't know the
whole details of the story
because a lot of the
tablets are destroyed,
or we only have partial stories.
But what we're getting
out of the Maya
is a pretty detailed story about
this conflict, which parallels
what we had with the Anunnaki.
So I'm thinking it's probably
the same story, probably
the same story that we see
recorded in India about the gods
fighting.
>>CHURCH: Well, what do you
make of a third party coming in,
like a remote viewer
that's worked with the CIA.
And suddenly, he's
seeing the same story.
What do you think about that?
>>HAAS: Well, I'm glad you
brought that up because I
had forgotten about that.
That test they did with
the remote viewing,
they saw this destruction
going on Mars.
And do you know what time
frame they came up with?
A million years ago.
So if you keep finding
these detail points
from different
academic research,
it comes to appear that possibly
what we're seeing on Mars
is more evidence for what
these scientists are telling us
possibly happened in the past.
>>CHURCH: How many
Mayan codexes survived?
Four?
>>HAAS: Yeah, there's
three or four.
>>CHURCH: Three or four.
The Spanish come in and
burn and destroy everything.
We are very lucky that we've
got these complete codexes
out there.
But the Madrid Codex is an
interesting one, isn't it?
Because it actually goes
straight at Mars and Mars
beast descending
from the sky, which
suggests to me outer space.
>>HAAS: Well, the Mars
images in the Madrid Codex,
they're very similar to the ones
that are in the Dresden Codex.
They also-- they
have a star band,
which is what the
archaeologists call it.
This is a symbol of the
sky, the stars, the heavens.
And it has these beasts
coming down like an invasion,
like they're coming
down from the sky,
and they're dressed
like Mars beasts.
So you have a Martian invasion.
It's very-- and this
kind of went right
over the head of
the archaeologist.
They couldn't put this together.
>>CHURCH: Well, we
had a difficult time
transcribing and translating
it, too, as well.
But once it becomes apparent,
and you have it accurately
read and transcribed, they
were writing about an event.
And it was preserved there.
It's very interesting
when there was
nothing else flying in the sky.
What else were they seeing?
>>HAAS: Yea.
Well, the Maya, the Aztec, they
were very much astronomers.
They searched the heavens.
They watched all the
movements of-- they're
very interested in
Mars, also, Venus.
A lot of their battles and
stuff were when Venus--
See, Venus and Mars can
both be morning stars.
And a lot of
archaeologists believe
that the morning star was Venus,
but sometimes it could be Mars.
And when these things arose,
this would signify to the Maya
that we have to have a battle.
We have to do a reenactment
of these battles that
happened a long time ago
between Earth and Mars
with that weird
culture that was here.
>>CHURCH: I spend a lot of time
in Central and South America.
I love going down there
and just seeing things
because your eyes
don't lie to you.
And Chichn Itz
is very interesting
because we have something
there that clearly shows
a spacecraft and an astronaut.
And when you see
something like that,
where they literally just
laying it out for us,
that is what is going on.
Is there a reason to
second guess or try
to interpret what
is represented?
>>HAAS: Well Chichn Itz
is kind of interesting.
The Temple of the Jaguar
have all these wall murals
and these carvings inside.
And back in the early 1900s,
this young woman was allowed
to go in there and
do watercolors.
And she documented
all of these things.
And thank God we
have these today
because you can't basically
see anything in there
because it's all
deteriorated and flaked off.
And she actually shows
these stargate images
of these little guys with
beards sitting inside.
Now, the interesting
thing about these murals
at Chichn Itza in the
Temple of the Jaguar,
it seems to be different races.
You have guys with beards.
I mean, Maya do not have beards.
So there seem to
be a melting pot.
Different cultures that
were down in this area.
And in the Temple of the
Jaguar, it specifically shows
battles going on,
celestial battles,
with these star captains,
or these captain
suns that the
archaeologists call them.
And they just look
at these, and I
guess they just can't see that
this looks like a star battle.
And the other image is
like a serpent and a person
sitting on the serpent.
They're fighting in the sky.
And below it is a
battle going on.
This looks like a major event
going on that they're just
misinterpreting.
>>CHURCH: What do you
make of the star shield
in Elysium back on Mars.
>>HAAS: Oh, right down from
the famous Carl Sagan pyramids.
>>CHURCH: Yes.
>>HAAS: Carl Sagan's
pyramids, they weren't alone.
There were other geometrically
shaped structures there.
We had two that I
call the star shields.
They are five-pointed stars.
They look like star forts that
they built during the Civil War.
And it's exactly the same shape.
It's bizarre.
>>CHURCH: Let's look
at an image right here.
This is one of the
star shields here.
I could almost say star fort,
now that you mention it.
>>HAAS: Yes, I call
them star shields.
They look like star forts.
The one on the left
is the larger one.
That's about, I don't
know, 2,500 across.
And then you have this little
one, which I call the mini me
or star shield junior, and
they're almost identical.
Now, how do you
have that in nature?
These things were constructed.
Now I'm showing an
example here of the fort.
It's called the
Fort Santa Teresa.
This is in Uruguay.
This is a star
fort that was built
around the same
time we were having
our birth of our
country in 1776.
And you can imagine that
covered over with sand and dirt,
and you would think
it's almost identical.
And it even has the
little point at the top.
Now, the interesting
thing, if the viewers
are looking at these
two star forts,
the peaks have these
little curves to them.
Now, in the book, I
show the significance
of those little
curves on the points
is because there's three
sections of structures, that
include the Carl Sagan
three-sided pyramids,
that they're all arranged
in a circular pattern.
>>CHURCH: When you start to
see these starburst formations
and star formations, to suggest
that it's not necessarily
formed in nature.
But I see da Vinci,
too, as well.
He's designed formations
with this shape.
This is nothing new here,
but it has never been
in nature on Earth either.
It does seem like it's
intelligent design, doesn't it?
>>HAAS: Yes, especially when you
look at this area surrounding
where Carl Sagan's pyramids
are, in these star fort shaped
star shields that I
call them, everything
around it looks natural.
You can see mountainous
areas and little formations.
None of them jump out at you.
But all of these, it's just--
it says, hey, looky here.
>>CHURCH: And talking about
starburst, we have Fort Henry.
And we've got an
image here that I want
you to tell me what's going on.
This is very compelling.
>>HAAS: Now, what
we're looking at here,
this is in a different area of--
it's not in Elysium.
This is in another area of Mars.
And this shows a five-sided
star fort formation.
And the interesting thing about
this, when I first found it,
I really wasn't
aware of Fort Henry.
I knew about Fort Henry,
but I didn't really
know what its
footprint looked like.
And if you look at this
star image on Mars,
which I call a starburst, it has
that flat portion on the top.
And it also has these
little mounds inside.
Now, these mounds inside
are where the barracks are
and the armory and
all this stuff.
And we find the same
thing with Fort Henry.
Has the same shape, has the
five bastions that stick out.
It's very defensive.
And it also has that odd flat
top on the top northern area.
>>CHURCH: You can
almost overlay those.
>>HAAS: It is mind-boggling.
It's like it's a doppelganger.
>>CHURCH: Now, in the same
region we have a Pentagon, too,
don't we?
>>HAAS: Yes, just like we have
the D&M Pyramid in Cydonia,
there's a five-sided
pyramid right down from this
that-- it's very geometric.
Again, like Carl
Sagan says, you want
to look for geometry
because that's
the signature for architecture.
>>CHURCH: When we talk
about ancient civilizations
and these possibilities, I
like to go into the A word, not
aliens, but Atlantis.
What have you discovered?
And NASA has brought
up Atlantis Chaos?
>>HAAS: Yes, this
interesting area of Mars NASA
calls Atlantis Chaos, Chaos
meaning that it's in disarray.
It's chaotic, maybe
what you would
see after a nuclear
explosion-- total chaos.
And that's what we're
finding on Mars.
>>CHURCH: Let's
look at this image.
>>HAAS: Now, what we
have here is a close-up.
This is from the Mars Global
Reconnaissance Orbiter camera.
This is the best
camera that NASA has.
We're zooming in
on the landscape.
And what we find
is this grid, this
compartmentalized cubic
structures all in a row.
And it appears that
all of these roofs
have been just blown
off of these structures.
>>CHURCH: I want to make sure
I'm understanding you correctly.
You're saying that
the image on the left
is a NASA image of Mars.
>>HAAS: It's hard to
believe, but that's on Mars.
>>CHURCH: Let me say it again.
You are saying that
the image on the left
is a NASA image of Mars.
>>HAAS: Correct.
It's hard to believe, but
that is found on Mars.
It has-- it's totally geometric.
It's a grid.
It's got these little cubic
dwellings that are there.
They're all empty.
And they're very
similar to what we
see in Saudi Arabia, these
little adobe-type buildings that
have the roofs off because these
are very-- nobody lives in these
anymore.
They're out in the desert, and
they make great photographs.
And as you can see,
this grid-like pattern
is repeated in what
we're seeing on Mars.
>>CHURCH: That
doesn't look natural.
>>HAAS: Does not look natural.
And these little dwellings are
about 20 feet by 20 feet square.
So they're pretty big.
They're probably
as big as a barn.
And these structures
on Earth are
a lot smaller, these
little dwellings,
and they're all side by side.
Now, if you're looking
at the stuff on Mars,
not having this comparison that
you can do on Earth, you'd say,
oh, this is probably just
a geology, but it isn't.
Now, this is a close-up.
We're looking at the same
area showing the peaked roofs.
>>CHURCH: Gabled.
>>HAAS: The gabled roofs.
It's amazing.
And I'm doing a comparison
here with Machu Picchu
with these same similar
dwellings with the roofs.
They probably had straw or
whatever type of coverings
were on these.
These are all gone.
But the ones on
Mars, you can even
see debris and things inside--
very highly detailed.
And this stuff screams
for artificiality.
>>CHURCH: One more quick image.
This is the Atlantis
Chaos city center.
What are we looking at?
>>HAAS: Well, it's
amazing that we
are looking at the close UPS
of all these cubic buildings
that all the roofs blown off,
if we had a nuclear explosion
that Dr. Brandenburg talks of.
Well, these three
structures all are intact.
We have a structure
in the center that
has a dome with a peak on top.
On the left, number A, you
have almost like a step
pyramid from the Maya.
It's a twisted temple.
It's all intact.
And then on the far right,
we have a odd structure
that looks like an old
wood mill that you'd
see up in Northern Maine.
And these are all
intact, which is odd.
Now, if you had a nuclear
explosion above ground,
like we had at Hiroshima,
and you remember,
their public building in
the center was still intact.
Everything else around
that building in the middle
was destroyed.
We have the same imagery here
that we're seeing on Mars.
Three structures at the center,
ground zero, still standing,
but everything
else is flattened.
>>CHURCH: Fascinating.
So much to still be
discovered-- so much.
Where can everybody
find your book?
>>HAAS: Well, the book's
put out by Bear & Company.
It's available on their website.
It's also-- everybody
goes to amazon.com.
It's easily found there.
Just look up The Great
Architects of Mars, George Haas,
and my book's right there.
I also suggest, if you're
interested in this information,
also get the Kindle.
Because the Kindle,
you can zoom in
because it uses all the digital
images that I got from NASA,
that high resolution.
So you can zoom in on
all of these formations
with the Kindle, which is--
I recommend get both.
>>CHURCH: Fascinating
conversation, George.
Thank you so much for
being on the show today
I'm your host, Jimmy Church,
sitting in for George Noory.
We'll catch you next time
right here on Beyond Belief.
[THEME MUSIC]